# Swift-AssetsLegalMentionsChecker

Swift-written tool to use in command line to check if images contain copyright / legal mentions / credits in metadata.
This project is built with Xcode.

## Managed files

This current version deals only with PNG file (with .png or .PNG extensions), and looks for some fields in the metadata : TIFF, IPTC and PNG.
If will check in these fields if the mention to look for is _exactly_ the defined value.

## Executables

If you are looking for the executables you can have a look on folder _~/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/Swift-AssetsLegalMentionsChecker-XXX/Build/Products/Debug/_ where XXX is a kind of random string generated by Xcode. You have to build the project with Xcode before.

## Run the program

Assuming _EXECUTABLE_ is the executable file (you can pick for example in the mentioned folder above):

To get the usage of the program:

```shell
EXECUTABLE --help
```

To get the version of the program:

```shell
EXECUTABLE --version
```

To run the program where it have to find recursively a CREDIT line in metadata of images in the FOLDER:

```shell
EXECUTABLE --folder FOLDER --mention CREDIT
```

You can also make the program displays more messages with the verbose option:

```shell
EXECUTABLE --folder FOLDER --mention CREDIT --verbose
```

## Exit codes

The program returns a value indicating if a problem occured or not:

* (-1): something wrong occured (command line options for example)
* (0): no error appeared, normal exit without image processing (e.g. display help)
* (+1): normal exit but failure occured during check of images (i.e. at least 1 file does not have legal mention in credits)
* (+2): normal exit, all files contain the legal mention

## Xcode integration

You can use this tool with an Xcode build script. The following sample can be placed in a script to add to your Xcode configuration. Thus the tool (with binary in the project) can be used easily.

```shell
#!/bin/sh
LEGAL_NOTICE="My Project, (c) Copyright Me-MySelf-And-I- SA 2020, CC-BY-SA-NC 4.0"
TOOL_PATH="path/to/binary/of/this/tool"
TARGET="."

$TOOL_PATH --folder "$TARGET" --mention "$LEGAL_NOTICE"
result=$?

if [ $result -eq 2 ]
then
	echo "✅ All assets contain legal notice in metadata."
	exit 0
else
	echo "🔴 Something wrong occured, see logs for further details."
	exit 1
fi
```
